
Hon’ble Minister of State for MSME
Shri Bhanu Pratap Singh Verma
Shri Narayan Rane
Hon’ble Union Minister for MSME
“ MSMEs are amongst the
strongest drivers of economic
development, innovation and
employment. ”
“ Constant efforts are being
made towards upliftment of
MSMEs under “Self Reliant
India” through various
schemes. “
MSME SCHEMES 01
Schemes implemented by M/o MSME & its organisatons
3.

16
Table of Content
1.
1.1.
Prime Minister’s Employment Generation Programme
(PMEGP)
2nd Loan for up-gradation of the existing PMEGP/
MUDRA units
2. Credit Guarantee Scheme for Micro & Small Enterprises
(CGTMSE)
Micro & Small Enterprises Cluster Development Programme
(MSE-CDP) Scheme
4. Scheme of Fund for Regeneration of Traditional Industries
(SFURTI)
10.
A Scheme for Promotion of Innovation, Rural Industries and
Entrepreneurship (ASPIRE)
11.
National SC-ST Hub Scheme
5. Entrepreneurship Skill Development Programme
(ESDP) Scheme
6. Assistance to Training Institutions (ATI) Scheme
7. Coir Vikas Yojana
03
05
07
09
11
13
15
19
21
24
26
8. Procurement and Marketing Support (PMS) Scheme
9. International Cooperation (IC) Scheme
12. Khadi Gramodyog Vikas Yojana 28
I . Khadi Vikas Yojana 28
II . Gramodyog Vikas Yojana 29
MSME SCHEMES 02
13. Promotion of MSME in NER and SIKKIM 31
1). MSME Sustainable (ZED) Certification
2). MSME- Innovative (Incubation, IPR and Design)
New Schemes
14. Tool Rooms and Technical Institutions - A Component of
Infrastructure Development & Capacity Building scheme
34
15. MSME Champions Scheme 36
16.
Self Reliant India (SRI) Fund
Credit Guarantee Scheme for Subordinate Debt (CGSSD) for
Stressed MSMEs
43
17.
19. Important Contact Numbers
45
18. Raising and Accelerating MSME Performance (RAMP) 47
49
37
40
• Credit linked subsidy program for setting up new
micro-enterprise in non-farm sector.
• Margin Money subsidy ranges from 15% to 35% of project
cost for projects up to Rs. 50 Lakh in Manufacturing sector
and Rs. 20 Lakh in the Service sector.
MSME SCHEMES 03
Prime Minister’s Employment
Generation Programme(PMEGP)
Objective:
To generate sustainable and continuous employment
opportunities for rural and unemployed youth as well as
prospective traditional artisans and thereby halt
occupational migration.
•
• For beneficiaries belonging to Special categories such as
SC/ST/ Women/ Minorities/ Ex-Servicemen/ Transgenders/
Aspirational districts/NER, the margin money subsidy is 35%
in rural areas and 25% in urban areas.
• The own contribution of the beneficiary is 10% of the project
cost in case of General category and 5% of the project cost
in case of Special category (SC/ST/OBC/PH/Women/Ex
Servicemen/Transgenders/Aspirational Districts/NER)
beneficiaries

Scheme applicable for:
• Any individual, above 18 years of age can apply.
Detailed Information:
For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in
The scheme aims to provide financial assistance to set up
self-employment ventures and generate sustainable
employment opportunities in rural as well as urban areas.
•
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 04
• If the application for loan is approved, Banks sanction and
release the balance amount of 90 to 95 percent of the
total project cost suitably for setting up of the units by the
beneficiaries.
• In order to have sustainability of the projects/units set up
under the scheme, support services are also provided in
the form of Backward & Forward Linkages by organizing
events like workshops, EDP training to the beneficiaries,
exhibitions, etc.
• Government of India has introduced online process for flow
of applications and disbursement of Margin Money directly
to financing branches.
• Online application form is mandatory for individuals on the
e-portal. The application form/PMEGP MIS portal is mobile
friendly. SMS/e-mail alerts are sent to the applicants
automatically by the system or by the concerned officials
at each stage.
• To increase the registration of MSMEs in the country, the
Government has undertaken measures for PMEGP units to
adopt the Udyog Aadhar Memorandum (UAM)/UDYAM
Registration
• Model Projects Reports of different activities have been put up
on PMEGP e-portal for the benefit of potential beneficiaries.
How to apply:
• Apply on:
https://www.kviconline.gov.in/pmegpeportal/pmegphome
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 05
1.1) 2nd Loan for up-gradation of the existing
PMEGP/REGP/ MUDRA units
Objective:
• With an objective to assist existing units for expansion and
upgradation, the scheme provides financial assistance to
successful/well performing units.
• The scheme also caters to the need of the entrepreneurs
for bringing new technology/ automation so as to
modernize the existing unit.
• Maximum subsidy would be 15% of the project cost (20% for
NER and Hill States). The balance amount of the total
project cost is provided by Banks as term loan.
• Further financial assistance scheme for expansion/
upgrade the existing PMEGP/REGP/MUDRA units for
manufacturing and Service/ Trading units from the year
2018-19
• The maximum cost of the project under manufacturing
sector for up-gradation is Rs.1.00 crore and Rs. 25.00 lakhs
under Service/ Trading sector.
• Maximum subsidy would be 15% of the project cost (20%)
for NER and Hill States) i.e. Rs. 15.00 lakhs in Non-NER and Rs.
20.00 Lakh for NER and Hill States. The balance amount of
the total project cost shall be provided by Banks as term
loan.

Scheme applicable for:
• Existing well performing PMEGP/REGP/MUDRA units
Detailed Information:
• All existing units financed under PMEGP/MUDRA Scheme
whose margin money claim has been adjusted and the
first loan availed has been repaid in stipulated time are
eligible to avail the benefits
• The units should have been making profit for the last three
years.
• Beneficiary can apply to the same financing bank, which
sanctioned the loan for their unit, or to any other financing
bank, which is willing to extend credit facility for second
loan.
• The beneficiary can choose any implementing agency and
that may be different from the agency chosen for 1st loan.
• The 2nd loan should lead to additional employment
generation.
• To submit the application under 2nd loan for up-gradation,
the beneficiaries have to apply by filling application form
on PMEGP e-Portal.
• Registration of Udyog Aadhar Memorandum (UAM)/UDYAM
REGISTRATION is mandatory.
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 06
How to apply:
• Apply on:
https://www.kviconline.gov.in/pmegpeportal/pmegphome
Credit Guarantee Scheme for Micro
& Small Enterprises(CGTMSE)
Objective:
• To encourage first generation entrepreneurs to venture
into self-employment opportunities by facilitating credit
guarantee support for collateral free / third-party guarantee-free loans to the Micro and Small enterprises (MSEs),
especially in the absence of collateral.
• Credit guarantee for loans up to Rs. 2 crores, without
collateral and third-party guarantee.
• Guarantee coverage ranges from 85% (Micro Enterprise up
to Rs 5 lakhs) to 75% (others).
• 50% coverage is for retail activity.
• Any collateral/ third party guarantee free credit facility
(both fund as well as non-fund based) extended by
eligible institutions, to new as well as existing Micro and
Small Enterprises, including Service Enterprises, with a
maximum credit cap of Rs. 2 crore are eligible for
guarantee under the scheme. Recently, guarantee
coverage made eligible to select NBFCs and Small Finance
banks.
• The guarantee cover available under the scheme is to the
extent of 50%/ 75% / 80% & 85% of the sanctioned amount
of the credit facility. The extent of guarantee cover is 85% for
micro enterprises for credit up to Rs. 5 lakh. The extent of

Scheme applicable for:
• Existing Entrepreneurs and Aspiring Entrepreneurs.
Detailed Information:
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 07
guarantee cover is 50% of the sanctioned amount of the
credit facility for credit from Rs. 10 lakh to Rs. 1 crore per MSE
borrower for retail trade activity.
• The extent of guarantee cover is 80% for (i) Micro and
Small Enterprises operated and/or owned by women; and
(ii) all credits/loans in the North East Region (NER) for credit
facilities up to Rs. 50 lakh. In case of default, the trust
settles the claim up to 75% of the amount in default of the
credit facility extended by the lending institution for credit
facilities up to Rs 2 crore.
How to apply:
•
•
Through Member Lending Institutions (Banks and NBFCs)
For detailed guidelines please visit https://www.cgtmse.in
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 08

Micro & Small Enterprises Cluster
Development Programme(MSE-CDP)
Scheme
Objective:
• To support the sustainability and growth of MSEs by
addressing common issues such as improvement of
technology, skills & amp; quality, market access, etc.
• To create/upgrade infrastructural facilities in the new/
existing Industrial Areas/Clusters of MSEs.
• To set up Common Facility Centres (for testing, training,
raw material depot, effluent treatment, complementing
production processes, etc).
• Promotion of green & sustainable manufacturing
technology for the clusters.
• Creation of Common Facility Centers including Plug & Play
Facilities.
• Support for Infrastructure Development Projects including
Flatted Factory Complexes.
• COMMON FACILITY CENTRES: Creation of “tangible assets”
such as Common Production / Processing Centre, Design
Centers, Testing Facilities including Plug & Play Facilities.
GoI Assistance: up to 80% of the maximum Project cost of
Rs. 30 crores.
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 09

Scheme applicable for:
• Existing Entrepreneurs [in form of a Special Purpose
Vehicles (SPVs)].
Detailed Information:
• INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT: Development of land,
roads, drainage, power distribution etc. in new/existing
industrial (multi-product) areas/estates/Flatted Factory
Complex. GoI Assistance: up to 70% of the maximum
Project cost of Rs. 15 crores.
How to apply:
•

Apply on:
https://cluster.dcmsme.gov.in
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 10
Scheme of Fund for Regeneration of
Traditional Industries(SFURTI)
Objective:
• To organize traditional industries and artisans into
collectives by increasing production and value addition
to make products competitive
• To promote traditional sectors and increase income of
artisans providing sustainable employment.
• GoI support:
• Upto Rs. 2.5 cr. for upto 500 artisans
• Rs. 5 cr for more than 500 artisans.
• A production facility is set up with latest machineries
• Soft Interventions – upto Rs. 25 lakhs
• Skill Development
• Exposure Visits
• Buyer Seller Meets
• Marketing connect, e-commerce
• Design support
• Raw material support

Scheme applicable for:
Existing artisans from traditional industries in sectors such
as Handicraft, Textile, Agro-Processing, Bamboo, Honey,
Coir, Khadi, etc.
•
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 11
How to apply:
•

Apply on:
https://sfurti.msme.gov.in/SFURTI/Home.aspx
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 12
• Artisans are constituted into Special Purpose Vehicles
(SPVs) by Implementing Agencies (State/Central Govt.
organizations, NGOs) who need to provide land and 10%
(5% in NER, J&K and Hill Areas) of Hard Intervention
• Financial assistance of up to 90% (95% in NER, J&K and Hill
Areas) of Hard Intervention cost, entire cost of Soft
Intervention, Technical Agency fee and Implementing
Agency fee is given by GoI
• Detailed guidelines is available on
https://sfurti.msme.gov.in/SFURTI/Home.aspx
Detailed Information:
Entrepreneurship and Skill Development
Programme(ESDP) Scheme
Objective:
• To promote new enterprises, capacity building of existing
MSMEs and inculcating entrepreneurial culture in the
country.
• Widen the base of entrepreneurship by development,
achievement, motivation and entrepreneurial skill to the
different sections of the society.

Scheme applicable for:
• Aspiring and Existing Entrepreneurs.
• Entrepreneurship Awareness Programme (EAP)-One Day
training programme is conducted for Entrepreneurship/
Self-employment awareness and motivation to different
sections of the society including SC/ ST/ Women, differently
abled, Ex-servicemen and BPL persons as career options.
• Entrepreneurship cum Skill Development Programme(E-SDP)
- Six weeks training programme is conducted for
Entrepreneurship & Skill Training in Agro Based Products,
Hosiery, Food & Fruit Processing Industries, Carpet Weaving,
Mechanical Engineering Workshop/ Machine Shop, Heat
Treatment, Electroplating, Basic/Advance Welding/
Fabrication/Sheet metal work, Basic/ Advance Carpentry,
Glass & Ceramics etc.
• Advance E-SDP: The One Week Advance ESDP programmes
are conducted through IIMs/IITs/ICAR/CSIR/BARC/IISC/NIT/
Agricultural University of Central and State government etc.
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 13
Detailed Information:
How to apply:
•
•

Apply through the websites of MSME-DFOs, MSME-TC and
other Implementing Agencies under ESDP scheme.
The scheme link -
http://dcmsme.gov.in/Enterprise&skillDevelopment.htm
and
http://msmedi.dcmsme.gov.in
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 14
Management Development programme (MDP)- One week
training programme for Management capacity building
Training to Existing Entrepreneurs and their supervisory staff in
Industrial Management, Human Resource Management,
Marketing Management, Export Management/Documentation
&Procedures, Materials Management, Financial/Working
Capital Management, Information Technology, Digital
Marketing, Quality Management/QMS/ISO 9000/EMS, WTO, IPR,
Supply Chain Management, Retail Management, Logistics
Management etc.
• Advance MDP: The One Week Advance MDP Training
Programmes is conducted through State Administrative
Training Institutes (ATIs) and/or other reputed institutions in
this domain of Central or State Governments/NITs/ Regional
Engineering Colleges/ Agricultural colleges/Autonomous
bodies of Central/State Governments to provide MDP training
to MSMEs promoters/executives.
Assistance to Training Institutions
(ATI) Scheme
Description :
Nature of Assistance :
•
•
The assistance is provided to National level training
institutions operating under the Ministry of MSME, namely,
NI-MSME, KVIC, Coir Board, Tool Rooms, NSIC & MGIRI in the
form of capital grant for the purpose of creation and
strengthening of infrastructure and support for
entrepreneurship development and skill development
training programmes. Assistance is also provided to existing
State level EDIs i.e. owned and controlled by a State
Government/UT for creation or strengthening/ expansion of
their training infrastructure
Amount of assistance will not exceed the actual amount for
strengthening/ expansion of the infrastructure required by
the training institutions of this Ministry. Scale of maximum
assistance to the State level EDIs will be restricted to Rs.3.00
crore in each case. Assistance for skill development
programmes will be provided as per the prescribed rates.

Who can apply:
• Institutions of Ministry of MSME and existing State level EDIs.
Deputy Secretary (EDI), M/o MSME
Whom to contact :
•
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 15
How to apply:
•

Organizations wishing to apply for assistance for creation or
strengthening of infrastructure may send their applications
to the Director/Deputy Secretary (EDI), Ministry of Micro,
Small and Medium Enterprises, Udyog Bhawan, Rafi Marg,
New Delhi – 110 011.
Coir Vikas Yojana- Umbrella
Scheme
Objective:
I. SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
• To enhance utilization of the raw material abundantly
available in the country at economic levels of production.
Coir Vikas Yojana (CVY) is an Umbrella Scheme being implemented by
Coir Board for the Development of Coir Industry all over the country.
• To increase income/returns to workers, entrepreneurs,
exporters and other stake-holders of the industry.
• Full utilization of the market potential of the products
within the country and abroad and Industry related
functional support services.
• Development of improved equipments machinery,
processes and new products.
• Promoting large scale investment in Coir Industry.
• Development of skilled manpower for Coir industry,
empowerment of rural women and Employment
Generation.
• Welfare measures for coir workers.
• To upgrade the coir industry through technological
interventions and integration of various Digital Platforms.
Under this Umbrella Scheme, the Coir Board is
implementing the following sub schemes/ programmes:
Modernization of Production Processes, Development of
Machinery and Equipments, Product Development and
Diversification, Development of Environment friendly
technologies, Technology Transfer, Incubation, Testing and
Service Facilities, are the components of this programme.
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 16

With a view to disseminate information on the schemes
and latest technologies available in coir sector and also to
attract prospective entrepreneuers to this sector, the Board
organizes Entrepreneurship Development Programmes,
Workshops, Seminars, Awareness Programmes, Exposure
Tour etc. under this Scheme.
a. Skill Upgradation
Mahila Coir Yojana is a women oriented, self employment
scheme being implemented by the Coir Board. The scheme
is intended to provide training with stipend facilities and
creation of self-employment opportunities to rural women
artisans in regions producing coconut.
The activities of the Board under Export Market Promotion
include participation in international exhibitions, publicity,
providing assistance under Export Market Development
Assistance Scheme/International Co-operation Scheme etc.
The main activities under the Domestic Market Promotion
scheme are display cum sales of coir products through its
Showrooms & Sales Depots, participation in domestic
exhibitions organized by other Agencies, organizing exclusive
fairs, disbursement of Market Development Assistance (MDA)
to the Coir Co-operative units and PSUs, through the State
Governments/ UTs concerned.
The activities under this programme would involve primary
and secondary level information search, collection and
statistical analysis of information including export, drawing
inferences and preparation and publication of the reports.
b. Mahila Coir Yojana
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 17
II. SKILL UPGRADATION AND MAHILA COIR YOJANA
III. EXPORT MARKET PROMOTION
IV. DOMESTIC MARKET PROMOTION
V. TRADE AND INDUSTRY RELATED FUNCTIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 18
How to apply:
•

The details of the Schemes are available in the Coir
Board Website http://coirboard.gov.in
The Coir Board is planning to introduce new welfare scheme
for the welfare of Coir workers in place of Pradhan Mantri
Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY).
VI. WELFARE MEASURES
Scheme applicable for:
• All Coir Production/processing units registered under
Coir Board and having valid Udyam Registration
Certificate.
Procurement and Marketing
Support (PMS) Scheme
Objective:
• The scheme aims to promote new market access initiatives like
organizing / participation in National / International Trade Fairs /
Exhibitions / MSME Expo, etc. held across the country and to create
awareness and educate the MSMEs about the importance /
methods/ process of packaging in marketing, latest packaging
technology, import-export policy and procedure, GeM portal, MSME
Conclave, latest developments in international / national trade and
other subjects / topics relevant for market access developments.

Organizing National workshops/seminars by the Ministry / Office of
DC (MSME) (Conventional/Virtual).
 Capacity Building
• Adoption of Modern Packaging Techniques
• Adoption of Bar Code
• Adoption of e-Commerce Platform
• National Workshops / Seminars
•
Infrastructure development of Retail Outlets for promoting
(Geographical Indication)GI Products
•
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 19
Development of Retail Outlet
Scheme components:
• Participation of Individual MSEs in Trade Fairs / Exhibitions.
Market Access
• Organizing Domestic/ International Trade Fairs/Exhibition and
participation in trade fairs/exhibitions by the Ministry/Office of DC
(MSME)/Government organizations.
• Vendor Development Program (VDP).
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 20
For detailed information, refer PMS Scheme
guidelines on
http://dcmsme.gov.in/OM%20&%20PMS%20Scheme%20Guidelines.pdf
www.dcmsme.gov.in
Detailed Information:
Scheme applicable for:
•
•
•
Manufacturing/ Service Sectors MSEs having valid
Udyam Registration (UR) Certificate.
How to apply:
Apply on:
International Cooperation (IC)
Scheme
Objective:
• The scheme aims to build Capacity of MSMEs for entering
export market by facilitating their participation in
international exhibitions/ fairs/conferences/ seminar/
buyer-seller meets abroad as well as providing them with
actionable market-intelligence and reimbursement of
various costs involved in export of goods and services. The
Scheme provides opportunities to MSMEs to continuously
update themselves to meet the challenges emerging
out of changes in technology, changes in demand,
emergence of new markets, etc.
As on date, Sub-Component–I and Sub-Component-II are in
operation. The guidelines of these two components have
already been circulated which are available on Ministry’s
website. Sub-Component-III will be in operation soon.
• Sub-Component-I: Market Development Assistance of
MSMEs (MDA).
• Sub-Component-II: Capacity Building of First Time MSE
Exporters (CBFTE).
• Sub-Component-III: Framework for International Market
Intelligence Dissemination (IMID).

Eligible Organisations under Sub-Component-I :
• Ministry of MSME and organizations under the Ministry
• State/Central Gov mernment Organizations/Institutions
and Registered Industry/Enterprise Associations etc.
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 21
The Scheme covers the following sub-components:
• Space Rent (Stall Charges): Upto Rs. 3.00 lakh per MSME.
• Air Fare : Upto Rs.1.50 lakh per MSME
• Duty allowance: USD150 per day for Office Bearer
• Freight charges: Upto Rs.50,000/-per MSME unit and
Rs.75,000/-per MSME for Latin American Countries.
• Advertisement and publicity charges: Upto Rs.5.00 lakh
• Registration fee: Upto Rs.5,000/-
Participation of MSME delegations in international
exhibitions, trade fairs and buyer-seller meets in foreign
countries (Physical Mode).
• Space/Stall Charges including catalogue/digital material
charges for Participating in the Virtual International Events
organized by foreign countries: Upto Rs.1.5 lakh.
• Advertisement and Publicity Charges: Upto Rs.5.00 lakh.
Participation of MSME delegations in international
exhibitions, trade fairs and buyer-seller meet by Foreign
Organisers (Virtual Mode).
Organizing International conferences/ summits/
workshops/Seminars on the themes relevant to MSME
sector (Physical Mode) to be organized in India by the
Industry Associations/Government Organizations.

Activities covered under Sub-Component-I
• Charges for holding/organizing the International
conferences/summits/workshops/seminars in India by
Industry Associations including charges for venue rent,
catering, advertisement &amp; publicity, security
arrangement, etc. : Upto Rs.10.00 lakh.
• Virtual Space/ Platform/License Fee/ Rent for Organising
Conferences /summits/ workshops/seminars: Upto Rs. 2.00
lakh.
• Economy class Airfare for foreign speakers/experts/resource
persons: Upto Rs.5.00 lakh.
Organising International conferences/ summits/workshops/
seminars on the themes relevant to MSME sector
(Virtual Mode) to be organized by Industry Associations/
Government Organizations.
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 22
Under this component, incidental costs viz. Registration
cum Membership certification (RCME); Export Insurance
Premium; Quality certification is reimbursed to first time
MSE Exporters. The Ministry on 20.09.2022 has
signed MoUs with 18 Export Promotion Councils (EPCs),
Export Credit Guarantee Corporation Ltd (ECGC) and
National Small Industries Corporation Ltd (NSIC) as
implementing agencies for Reimbursement of
RCMC Fees, Export Insurance Premium and Testing &amp;
Quality Certification to MSEs.
 Sub-Component-II
• Publicity Cost incurred on promotion/marketing/publicity
of the event: Upto Rs.5.00 lakh.
For more detailed information refer to Scheme guidelines, on the
following link:
https://msme.gov.in/sites/default/files/RevisedICScheme2021.PDF
• Translation and Interpretation charges involved in the
virtual event: Upto Rs.1.00 lakh.
Organising Mega international conferences/summits/
workshops/seminars, bilateral/multilateral Government
to Government Events in India (Physical /Virtual Mode) by
Ministry of MSME, its organizations solely or in partnership
with industry associations for promotion of MSME sector.
How to apply:
• Apply on:
http://ic.msme.gov.in
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 23
National SC-ST Hub Scheme
Objective:
• To provide professional support to Scheduled Caste and
Scheduled Tribe Entrepreneurs to fulfill the obligations
under the Central Government Public Procurement Policy
for Micro and Small Enterprises Order 2012, adopt
applicable business practices and leverage the Stand-Up
India initiatives.
• 25% subsidy on purchase of plant & machinery/equipments
or Rs. 25 lakh whichever is less.
• Marketing and mentoring support through participation in
exhibitions and vendor development programmes.
• Reimbursement of fees charged for bank loan processing,
testing services, membership of Export Promotion Council,
membership in Govt. promoted eCommerce Portals, Single
Point Registration Scheme of NSI.
• Collection, collation and dissemination of information
regarding SC/ST enterprises and entrepreneurs to CPSEs.
• Free skill trainings and distribution of trade specific tool kits to
trained candidates under the Skill Development programmes.

Scheme applicable for:
• Aspiring and Existing SC/ST Entrepreneurs.
National Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Hub (NSSH) was
launched by Hon'ble Prime Minister in October 2016 to provide
professional support to SC/ST entrepreneurs to fulfill the
obligations under the Central Government Public Procurement
Policy for Micro and Small Enterprises Order 2012, adopt
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 24
Detailed Information:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
applicable business practices and leverage the Stand up India
initiatives. The Hub has undertaken several initiatives to facilitate
SC/ST entrepreneurs by providing professional support in their
capacity building, market linkages, finance facilitation, tender bid
participation, etc. through its various subschemes/interventions.
The NSSH works on the mentioned priority areas through various
sub-schemes which are as follows:
For detailed guidelines:
• Visit:
https://www.scsthub.in/
25% subsidy on purchase of plant & machinery/equipments
Special Credit Linked Capital Subsidy Scheme.
100% subsidy on airfare and twice of DA as the rate prescribed
by MEA under Special Marketing Assistance Scheme.
100% subsidy to obtain NSIC's Registrations under the Single
Point Registration Scheme with a nominal fee of Rs. 100/-.
Reimbursement of 80% or Rs. 1.0 lakh whichever is less on Bank
Loan Processing fee .
Reimbursement of 80% or Rs. 1.0 lakh whichever is less on for
Performance Bank Guarantees.
Reimbursement of 80% or Rs. 1.0 lakh whichever is less on testing
fee.
Reimbursement of 80% or Rs. 20,000 whichever is less on
membership/subscription fee of Export Promotion Council
Membership
Reimbursement of 80% or Rs. 25,000 whichever is less on
membership fee of Government promoted e-Commerce Portals.
• Reimbursement of 90% or course fee or Rs. 1.0 lakh whichever is
less to top 50 NIRF Rated Management Institution’s Short-Term
Training Program Fee
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 25
A Scheme for Promotion of Innovation, Rural
Industries and Entrepreneurship (ASPIRE)
Objective:
•
•
•
•
To set up a network of Livelihood Business Incubators
(LBIs), predominantly in the rural and underserved areas,
to promote innovation and accelerate entrepreneurship
for the following :
Generate employment opportunities by facilitating formal,
scalable micro-enterprise creation in the agro-rural
sector.
Skill, up-skill, re-skill unemployed, self-employed/ wage
earners in new technologies in the agro-rural sector.
Provide skilled human capital to nearby industrial clusters
and promote innovations for strengthening the
competitiveness in the MSME sector.
• Maximum of INR 1 crore. to Government agencies & INR 75
lakh to Private agencies for procuring plant and machinery.
• Maximum of INR 1 crore. to Government and Private
agencies as operational expenditure support towards
manpower cost, running incubation and skill development
programmers, etc.

Scheme applicable for:
• Any agency/institution of Government of India/ State
government or existing training centres under
Ministries/Departments of Government of India/State
Government, Industry Associations, Academic Institutions.
• Any not-for-profit private institutions with experience in
successfully executing incubation and/or skill development
programs may be eligible to set up an LBI.
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 26
• Livelihood Business Incubator (LBI): An entity set up for
imparting skill development & incubation programmes for
promoting entrepreneurship and employment generation
in agro-rural sector with special focus on rural and
underserved areas.
• In case of private organizations, 25% of the Capital
Expenditure has to be borne by the Applicant Organization.
• Detailed guidelines are available at
https://aspire.msme.gov.in/ASPIRE/AFHome.aspx
Detailed Information:
How to apply:
•

Apply On:
https://aspire.msme.gov.in/ASPIRE/AFHome.aspx
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 27
KHADI GRAMODYOG VIKAS
YOJANA - Umbrella Scheme
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 28
Objective:
• To increase productivity and wages of Khadi Artisans and
secure livelihood
• To improve Infrastructure for Khadi Production
• Increased Khadi Production, Sales and Employment
• Development of Village Industries and increase number of
rural artisans
• To revive the traditional and inherent skills of rural artisans
• To renovate and Modernize Sales Outlets
• To promote Marketing and Exports
S.No Component Assistance
1.
2.
Subsidy @ 35% on Prime Cost for
Cotton/Muslin, Wool and
Polyvastra and @ 20% on Prime
Cost for Silk Khadi
Modified Market
Development Assistance
(MMDA)
Interest Subsidy Eligibility
Certificate Scheme (ISEC)
Khadi Institution is required to
pay only 4% interest rate. The
difference between the actual
Interest charged by the Bank
and 4% is borne by the KVIC as
“Interest Subsidy”.
 I. Khadi Vikas Yojana
3. Work-shed Scheme for
Khadi Artisans
Individual workshed (20 Sq. mtrs):
Rs. 1,20,000/- or 75% of the cost of
workshed including toilet (90% for
NER), whichever is less.
Group workshed (10 Sq. mtrs per
artisans): Rs.80,000 or 75% of the
cost of the workshed including
toilet (90% for NER), whichever is
less.
•
•
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 29
•
•
•
•
•
•
4. Strengthening
Infrastructure of Existing
Weak Khadi Institutions
and Assistance for
Marketing Infrastructure
Financial assistance for revival of
khadi institution with ceiling limit
of Rs.15.00 lakh(Capital
Expenditure +working fund).
5. Other Components Centre of Excellence for Khadi
Khadi Quality Assurance
Marketing(Exhibition)
Science & Technology (S&T)
Financial assistance under
Marketing Infrastructure for
renovation of departmental
sales outlets of KVIC /KVIB and
institutional sales with the ceiling
limit of Rs.25.00 lakh.
S.No Component Assistance
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
1. Agarbatti Programme
under Wellness and
Cosmetics Industries
(WCI)
Training Programme in
Agarbatti industry.
Distribution of Pedal operated /
Automatic Agarbatti Machinery
to trained artisans.
2. Leather Footwear Activity
under Handmade Paper
Leather & Plastic Industry
(HMPLPI)
Training on designing and
manufacturing of footwear.
Distribution of machinery and
tool kits to trained artisans.
3. Pottery Activity under
Mineral Based Industry
(MBI)
Training on Wheel pottery.
4. Beekeeping Activity/
Honey Mission
Programme under
Agro-Based & Food
Processing Industries
(ABFPI)
Beekeeping skill development
training.
Distribution of 10 bee boxes with
live bee colonies and One set of
Tool kit (containing one Knife,
Smoker, hive tool and bee veil)
to trained beneficiaries.
Distribution of tools and
equipments (Electric Potter
Wheel, Blunger) to trained
artisans.
II. Gramodyog Vikas Yojana
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 30
•
•
•
5. Waste Wood / Turn Wood
Craft /Wooden Toy
/Products of Panchgavya
under Rural Engineering
and New Technology
Training on Waste-Wood,
Turn-Wood Craft, Wooden Toy
and in Panchgavya based
Products.
Distribution of tool kit to all
trained artisans.
6. Training on Paper Conversion,
Paper Plate & Dona(Bowl)
making, Paper Mache, Fibre
Extraction and fancy article
making and Ban making (Two
ply).
Distribution of machinery and
tool kits to trained artisans.
Hand Made Paper and
Fiber related activities
under Hand Made
Paper, Plastic and
Leather Industry.
•
•
7. Agro- Food Based Food
Processing Industries
Service Industry
Training on Palm Gur, Tamarind,
Fruits & Vegetables, Village Oil,
Spices & Condiments, Cane &
Bamboo.
8. Training to Electrician & Plumbers,
and DigniTEA(Tea Vending on
Bicycle).
Distribution of tool kits to trained
beneficiary.
Distribution of machinery and tool
kits to trained artisans.
•
•
•
•
How to apply:
Apply on:
http://www.kviconline.gov.in
Khadi Institutions (KIs) registered with KVIC or State Khadi
and Village Industries Boards(KVIBs) and Khadi artisans.
The beneficiaries may be identified by KVIC, NGOs
/KIs/VIs/KVIB’s/ DIC’s/FPOs etc.
Age Group: 18-55 Years.
Having valid Aadhar Card or any other Identity Card issued
by Government.
One person from one family is eligible for the assistance
under KGVY.
Persons who have availed benefits from other Govt.
Schemes for the same/similar purpose is not eligible.
Preference shall be given to the people belonging to
SCs/STs/Women/ Unemployed Youth /BPL category etc.
Scheme applicable for:
Promotion of MSMEs in -
NER & Sikkim
Objective:
• The scheme envisaged for providing financial support
mainly for augmenting Infrastructure development for
enhancing the productivity, sustainability, competitiveness
and growth by addressing common issues such as
improvement of technology, skills & quality, market access
etc. of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs).
• Creation of common facilities to supplement
manufacturing, testing, packaging, R&D, product and
process innovations and training for natural resources
such as fruits, spices, agri, forestry, sericulture and bamboo
etc. available in NER and Sikkim.
• Development of tourism sector in NER and Sikkim by
creation of common services such as kitchen, bakery,
laundry & dry cleaning, refrigeration and cold storage, IT
infra, potable water, display center for local products,
center for cultural activities etc. in a cluster of home stays
• To create/ upgrade infrastructural facilities in the
new/existing Industrial Areas for MSMEs.

• Common facilities for MSMEs to develop new products &
processes including toolings.
• Developed infrastructure for entrepreneurs for establishing
new units or expanding their units.
• Support for creation of common infrastructures to boost
tourism in NER & Sikkim.
Key Benefit:
Nature of Assistance:
• Setting up of new and modernization of existing Mini
Technology Centers: : The financial assistance of
Government of India will be 90%. The maximum project
cost for calculation of GoI assistance shall be Rs.15.00
Crore. The GoI assistance towards the buildings cost for
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 31
How to apply:

• The State Government, desirous of availing financial
assistance under the scheme would formulate a proposal
and identify an agency preferably Department of
Industries & Commerce or any State Govt. organization
engaged in promotion of MSMEs to implement the project.
Then the proposal may be uploaded on the scheme portal
www.ner-promotion.msme.gov.in for approval process.
Contact:
• MSME-Development & Facilitation Offices under office of
the Development Commissioner, Ministry of Micro, Small &
Medium Enterprises
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 32
Eligibility/ Applicability:
up-gradation of infrastructure would be limited to 1.00
crore within the total permissible GoI assistance.
Government of India financial assistance would not be
admissible towards the cost of land.
• Development of new and existing Industrial Estates: The
financial assistance of Government of India will be 90%.
The maximum project cost for calculation of GoI
assistance shall be Rs.15.00 Crore for development of New
industrial estate whereas Rs.10.00 crore for development of
existing Industrial Estate.
• Development of Tourism Sector: The financial assistance
of Government of India will be 90% for projects with
maximum project cost Rs.5.00 crore for calculation of GoI
assistance. The balance project cost if any have to be
borne by the State Govt.
• State Government or any State Govt. organization
engaged in promotion of MSMEs.
NEW
SCHEMES
33
Tool Rooms and Technical Institutions - A Component
of Infrastructure Development & Capacity Building
Objective:
• Tool Room & Technical Institutions are concentrated on an
integrated Development of the relevant sector of industries
to help MSME. Total 18 MSME Tool Rooms & Technical
institutions established PAN India serving in the relevant
sector like General Engineering, foundry & forging,
electronics, fragrance, glass, sports good and footwear etc.
• Improves access of MSMEs to tooling facilities for
enhancement of their efficiency and providing industry
ready manpower by conducting training programme.
• Process and Product development in relevant sector.
• Consultancy and job works in relevant sector.

Who can apply:
Key Benefit:
•
•
Industrial Units (focusing on MSME sector).
• The intake eligibility for the training programmes from
school dropout to M. tech level.
18 Tool Rooms & Technical Institutions (TRs &TIs) under O/o
DC (MSME), Ministry of MSME are concentrating on an
integrated development of the related segments of
industries by way of providing quality tools, trained
personnel and consultancy in tooling and related areas,
specific product groups like Foundry & Forging, Electrical ,
Electronics, Fragrance & Flavour, Glass, Sport Goods, and
footwear etc. The Ministry has been investing periodically to
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 34
Detailed Information:
How to apply:

• Online application can be filled at
http://dcmsme.gov.in/CLCS_TUS_Scheme/Tool_Room_
Tech_Institutions/Scheme_ Guidelines.aspx or different
concerned Tool Room & Technical institutions website
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 35
upgrade the TRs & TIs by introducing new technologies
such as 3D Printing, Glass Machining, CAD/ CAM, CNC
machining for tooling, vacuum heat treatment, Robotics
and Process Automation etc.
• TRs & TIs are conducting various training Programme
includes NSQF Compliance Courses, AICTE/NCVT/SCVT
approved courses and variety of training courses as per
needs of industry to provide them industry ready
manpower & create Entrepreneurship. TRs & TIs have also
developed special training programmes to meet the
requirements at international level. Technology Centres
are conducting training programmes for international
participants sponsored under various agreements like
Technical Co-operation Scheme of Colombo (TCS),
Special Commonwealth African Assistant Programme
(SCAAP), Indian Technical and Economic Co-operation
(ITEC), Aid to Sri Lanka etc.
• In addition, these institutes provide technical services such
as design of parts and components, materials testing, heat
treatment, quality control, and technical consultancy
related to the product & process improvement. TRs &
TIs apart from extending design, development &
manufacturing support to MSMEs for complex tools, parts
and components (many that serve as import substitutes)
have also supported the strategic sectors such as
aerospace, defence, atomic energy etc. of the country for
their R&D requirements.
• All the TRs & TIs adhere to the principles of Total Quality
Management (TQM). They are ISO 9001-2000 certified
institutions and a few of them are ISO-14000, OHSAS-18000,
ISO-29990 and ISO-50001 certified. Central Tool Room &
Training Centre, Bhubaneswar is also AS-9100 certified for
Aero-space Component Supply.
MSME Champions Scheme
Ministry of MSME has been implementing Credit Linked Capital Subsidy and
Technology Upgradation Scheme (CLCS-TUS) for promoting
competitiveness amongst Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) by
the way of wastage reduction through Lean Manufacturing, support for
Design improvement, building awareness on Intellectual Property Rights,
Zero Defect Zero Effect (ZED) Scheme, digitally empowerment of MSME
through Digital MSME and to promote & support untapped creativity of
individual and to promote adoption of latest technologies in manufacturing
as well as knowledge based innovation MSMEs through Incubation across
India.
MSME Champions scheme has been formulated through Standing Finance
Committee (SFC) by merging all 6 components of erstwhile Technology
Upgradation Scheme (TUS) for a period of 5 years i.e. 2021-22 to 2025-26. It
is a Holistic Approach to unify, synergize and converge various schemes and
Interventions with a single purpose. The end objective is to pick up clusters
and enterprises and modernize their processes, reduce wastages, sharpen
business competitiveness and facilitate their National and Global reach and
excellence. There are 3 components under the new MSME Champions
scheme, the details of which are as below:
1) - MSME-Sustainable (ZED)
2) -
3) - MSME-Competitive (Lean) Yet to be launched
3) - Digital MSME Yet to be launched
MSME-Innovative(for Incubation, IPR, Design)
( The Digital MSME will be interlinked with all the other
components of the MSME Champions Scheme.)
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 36

About the scheme:
Objective:
The ZED Certification envisages promotion of Zero Defect
Zero Effect (ZED) practices amongst MSMEs so as to:
• Encourage and enable MSMEs for manufacturing of quality
products using latest technology, tools & to constantly
upgrade their processes for achievement of high quality
and high productivity with the least effect on the
environment.
• Develop an Ecosystem for ZED Manufacturing in MSMEs, for
enhancing competitiveness and enabling exports.
• Promote adoption of ZED practices and recognising the
efforts of successful MSMEs.
• Encourage MSMEs to achieve higher ZED Certification
levels through graded incentives.
• Increase public awareness on demanding Zero Defect and
Zero Effect products through the MSME Sustainable (ZED)
Certification.
• Identify areas to improve upon, thereby assisting the
Government in policy decisions and investment
prioritization.
• Cost of Certification
• Certification Level 1: BRONZE: Rs. 10,000/-
• Certification Level 2: SILVER: Rs. 40,000/-
• Certification Level 3: GOLD: Rs. 90,000/-
• Subsidy on cost of ZED certification:
• Joining Reward of Rs. 10,000/- (Bronze will become free
if availed)
• 80-60-50% for Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises

MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 37
1) MSME SUSTAINABLE (ZED) CERTIFICATION
• Additional subsidy:
• 10% for Women/SC/ST owned MSMEs OR MSMEs in
NER/Himalayan/LWE/Island territories/aspirational
districts.
• 5% for MSMEs which are also a part of the SFURTI OR
Micro & Small Enterprises - Cluster Development
Programme (MSE-CDP) of the Ministry.
• Financial Assistance in Testing/Quality/Product
Certification:
• Up to 75% of the total cost of Testing/Certification, with
the maximum ceiling of subsidy being Rs. 50,000/-.
• Handholding Support :
• Up-to Rs.2 lakhs for consultancy for all ZED certified
MSMEs.
• Support in Technology Upgradation for Zero Effect
Solutions:
• MSME KAWACH (Knowledge Acquisition through WASH
for an Accelerated COVID-19 Handling) Certification:
After taking ZED Pledge, MSMEs can avail support for their
preparedness to mitigate COVID 19 risks after obtaining
Certification based on WASH Standard.
• Graded incentives: MSMEs can avail graded incentives as
prescribed for the three ZED Certification Levels. Wherever
possible, the incentives provided by States will be linked
through API integration with the ZED portal to ensure
interoperability.
• Up-to Rs. 3 lakhs for all ZED certified MSMEs.
Scheme applicable for:
• All MSMEs registered with the UDYAM registration portal
(of the MoMSME) will be eligible to participate in MSME
Sustainable (ZED) Certification and avail related
benefits/incentives.
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 38
• MSME Sustainable (ZED) Certification is an extensive drive to
create awareness amongst MSMEs about Zero Defect Zero
Effect (ZED) practices and motivate and incentivize them for
ZED Certification while also encouraging them to become
MSME Champions. Through the journey of ZED Certification,
MSMEs can reduce wastages substantially, increase
productivity, enhance environmental consciousness, save
energy, optimally use natural resources, expand their
markets, etc. MSMEs will also be motivated to adopt best
practices in work culture, standardization of products,
processes and systems etc. in order to enhance their global
competitiveness and sustainability. The ZED Certification
aims at enhancing the competitiveness of an MSME by
assessment, modification through guidance, handholding,
managerial and technological intervention – not just
certification.
Detailed Information:
How to apply:
•

Eligible MSMEs shall apply through online portal
www.zed.msme.gov.in
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 39
Objective:
• To promote all forms of innovations in the complete value
chain from developing ideas into innovative applications
through incubation and design interventions.
• To provide appropriate facilities and support for development
of concept to market, design competitiveness and protection
& commercialization of Intellectual creations of MSME sector.
• To promote a culture of innovation and creative problem
solving through knowledge sharing and collaboration
amongst industry, academia, government institutions,
research laboratories etc.
• To serve as a connecting link between industrial/academia
leaders and innovators, in order to encourage new product
development and hand-holding.
• To focus on developing affordable innovations that can
benefit a large number of people and at the same time being
commercially viable and sustainable.
• Financial Assistance to HI for developing and nurturing
the ideas - shall be provided up to maximum of Rs. 15
lakh per idea to HI.
• Incubation
• Design Project: For the design projects approved for
any MSME, 75% (Micro) and 60% (Small & Medium) of
the total project cost will be contributed by GoI up to a
maximum of Rs. 40 lakh and the remaining project
cost will be borne by MSMEs and deposited to the IA.
• Design
• Financial assistance for Plant and Machinery to HI up to
Rs. 1.00 cr. (max) - shall be provided for procurement
and installation of relevant plant and machines
including hardware and software etc. in BI for R&D
activities and common facilities for incubatees of BI.
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 40

2) MSME - Innovative (Incubation, IPR and Design)
Scheme applicable for:
• Incubation: MSMEs, Individuals, Students who want to
develop their innovative ideas can apply through
registered HIs.
• Design: The beneficiary unit(s) must typically be a
registered micro, small or medium enterprises as per the
definition in MSMED Act and should have a valid UAM or
Udyam Registration.
• IPR: For Manufacturing MSMEs with UAM/UDYAM
Registration.
• MSME Innovative Champions is a holistic approach to unify,
synergize and converge 3 sub- schemes and interventions
with a single purpose MSME Innovative is a new concept for
MSMEs with a combination of innovation in incubation,
design intervention and by protecting IPR in a single mode
approach to create awareness amongst MSMEs about
India’s innovation and motivate them to become MSME
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 41
Detailed Information:
• A Grant of up to Rs. 1 crore would be provided to an
IPFC in milestone-based (three or more) installments.
S. No.
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.
v.
Item
Foreign Patent
Domestic Patent
GI Registration
Design Registration
Trademark
Maximum Financial Assistance
Rs. 5.00 lakhs
Rs. 1.00 lakhs
Rs. 2.00 lakhs
Rs. 0.15 lakhs
Rs. 0.10 lakhs
• IPR
• Student Project: 75% of the total project cost will be
contributed by GoI up to a maximum of Rs. 2.5 lakhs.
• Reimbursement for registration of Patent,
Trademark, Geographical Indications (G.I.), Design:
The maximum financial assistance to the eligible
applicants under the IPR component is as follows:
Champions. This will act as a hub for innovation
activities facilitating and guiding development of ideas
into viable business proposition that can benefit
society directly and can be marketed successfully.
How to apply:
•

The eligible applicants may apply at the MIS portal
(https://innovative.msme.gov.in).
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 42
Credit Guarantee Scheme for Subordinate
Debt (CGSSD) for Stressed MSMEs
Objective:
• Subordinate debt will provide a substantial help in sustaining
and reviving the MSMEs which have either become NPA or
are on the brink of becoming NPA.
• Promoter(s) may infuse this amount in MSME unit as equity
and thereby enhance the liquidity and maintain debt-equity
ratio.
• In a situation, where an outright loan is difficult, sub-debt
with guarantee will provide the requisite financing to the
MSME Units.
• Promoter(s) of the MSMEs are given credit equal to 50% of
their stake (equity plus debt) or Rs. 75 lakh whichever is
lower.

Scheme applicable for:
• This Scheme seeks to extend support to the promoter(s) of
the operational MSMEs which are stressed and have become
NPA as on 30th April, 2020 and standard as on 01th November,
2016.
• Promoter(s) of the MSMEs are given credit equal to 50% of
their stake (equity plus debt) or Rs. 75 lakh whichever is
lower.
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 43
• The maximum tenor for repayment is 10 years. There is a
moratorium of 7 years on payment of principal.
Detailed Information:
How to apply:
•
•
The guidelines of this scheme can also be downloaded
from the following URLs .
http://dcmsme.gov.in/CLCS_TUS_Scheme/DistressedAssets-Fund/Scheme_Guidelines.aspx )
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 44
• Guarantee for the sub-debt: 90% guarantee coverage
comes from the scheme / trust and remaining 10% from
the promoter(s) concerned.
• MSMEs meeting the eligibility criteria may approach
eligible Banks.
• Loan lending bank branch, CEO, CGTMSE, SIDBI,
Swavalamban Bhavan, C-11, G-Block, BKC, Bandra (East),
Mumbai 400051.
SELF RELIANT INDIA (SRI) FUND
Empowering MSMEs for Aatmanirbhar Bharat
India has embarked upon the path of self reliant economic
growth for achieving its aspiration of becoming an
economic superpower. Towards this end, one of the
initiatives taken by the Government of India is the launch of
the Self Reliant India (SRI) Fund.
The Fund structure is designed in a manner that it will
leverage the strength of the private sector in providing
growth capital to viable MSMEs having a definite growth
plan.
Fund Objective:
The Fund aims to provide capital support to the Daughter
Funds for onward provision to MSMEs as growth capital,
through equity, quasi-equity and debt to achieve the
following:
SRI Fund Structure:
The Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises has
established, through NSIC Venture Capital Fund Limited
(NVCFL) ,an AIF, christened as Self Reliant India (SRI) Fund,
having Mother Fund-Daughter Fund structure for ensuring
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 45
Supporting faster growth of MSME businesses, thereby
igniting the economy & creating several employment
opportunities.
Supporting enterprises which have the potential to
graduate beyond the MSME bracket and become
National/International champions.
Supporting MSMEs which will help make India
self-reliant by producing relevant technologies, goods
and services.

•
•
•
•
•
•
About the scheme:
SRI Fund Features:
Particulars Details
Target Group Viable MSMEs with a positive
growth trajectory
Government of India through
M/o MSME. Contribution INR
10,000 crore
Fund life is 15 years
Disbursement to MSMEs across
the country impacting lives and
far and wide.
Daughter Funds can be
categorized I or II AIFs registered
with SEBI
Non-Profit Institutions, NBFCs,
financial inclusion sector, SHGs
and other financial intermediaries.
Total Corpus
Tenure of Fund
Scope
Fund Type
Exclusions
availability of growth capital to the MSMEs, through
equity/quasi-equity/ equity like structured instruments.
This will encourage MSMEs in moving towards listing on the
Stock Exchanges, and growing beyond the bracket of MSME.
The AIF will be anchored by NSIC Venture Capital Fund
Limited (NVCFL), a wholly owned subsidiary of The National
Small Industries Corporation (NSIC), a Mini-Ratna
Corporation of the Government of India under the Ministry
of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MoMSME).
SRI Fund will contribute towards achieving India’s $5 trillion GDP target by
creating a vibrant MSME ecosystem, and making an Aatmanirbhar Bharat.
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 46
For complete details visit www.nvcfl.co.in
Raising and Accelerating MSME
Performance (RAMP)
RAMP is a World Bank supported Central Sector Scheme
aimed at improving access of MSMEs to market, finance and
technology upgradation by enhancing the outreach of
existing MoMSME schemes. The programme also aims at
strengthening institutions at the Central and State level, and
enhancing Centre- State collaboration
Objective:
Key Benefits:
RAMP scheme would enhance the performance of MSMEs
by promoting technology upgradation, innovation,
digitization, market access, credit, greening initiatives, etc
through active participation of the State Governments.
Target Beneficiaries
RAMP scheme envisages to benefit more than 5.5 lakh
MSMEs during the programme period (FY 2022-23 to
2026-27). The programme implementation will be
through the State agencies.
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 47
Accelerating Centre- State collaboration in MSME
promotion and development
Enhancing effectiveness of existing MoMSME schemes for
technology upgradation
Strengthening Receivable Financing Market for MSMEs
Enhancing effectiveness of Credit Guarantee Trust for Micro
& Small Enterprises (CGTMSE), and promoting guarantee for
greening initiatives of MSEs, and women owned MSEs
Reducing incidence of delayed payments to MSEs

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
About the scheme:
Individual MSMEs through State Government/Agencies
Scheme applicable for:
A separate RAMP portal will be developed shortly, with all
guidelines etc.
Further details:
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 48
IMPORTANT
CONTACT
NUMBERS
49
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 50
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 51
32 MSME- Development and Facilitation Oce (MSME-DFO)
S.No
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
MSME-DFO,Indranagar,
(Near ITI Play ground), PO-Kunjaban,
Agartala-799006
Ph : 0381-2352013/9742
Fax : 0381-2356570
dcdi-agartala@dcmsme.gov.in
www.msmedi-agartala.nic.in
MSME-DFO,
34, Industrial Estate,
Nunhai, (U.P.),
Agra -282 006. UP,
Ph : 0562-2280879
Fax : 0562-2280882
dcdi-agra@dcmsme.gov.in
www.msmediagra.gov.in
MSME-DFO, 65/1,G.S.T. Road,
Guindy, P.B. 3746, Chennai -600 032.
Tamilnadu,
Ph : 044-22501011 044-22501475
044-22501785
Fax : 044-22341014
dcdi-chennai@dcmsme.gov.in
www.msmedi-chennai.gov.in
MSME-DFO, Vikas Sadan,
College Square,
Cuttack -753 003. Odisha,
Ph : 0671-2548006 /077 /049
Fax : 0671-2611958
dcdi-cuttack@dcmsme.gov.in
www.msmedicuttack.gov.in
MSME-DFO, Tadong Housing Colony,
P.O. Tadong,
Gangtok -737102 Sikkim,
Ph : 03592-231262 /880
Fax : 03592-231262
dcdi-gangtok@dcmsme.gov.in
www.msmedigangtok.gov.in
MSME-DFO,
Opp. Konkan Railway Station.
 (Kepem Road), P.O. Box 334,
Margao -403 601. Goa
Ph : 0832-2705092/93,
2725979
Fax : 0832-2705094
dcdi-goa@dcmsme.gov.in
www.msmedigoa.gov.in
MSME-DFO, Industrial Estate
Bamuni Maidam, Guwahati -781021
Assam.
Ph :0361-2550052, 2550073
Fax : 0361-2550298
Ph :05946-228353
Fax : 05946-221053
dcdi-guwahati@dcmsme.gov.in
http://www.msmedi-guwahati.gov.in/
MSME-DFO, Kham Bungala Campis,
Kaladungi Road,
Haldwani -263139 Uttaranchal
dcdi-haldwani@dcmsme.gov.in
www.msmedihaldwani.gov.in
MSME-DFO, Industrial Estate,
Gokul Road,
Hubli -580 030 Karnataka,
Ph : 0836-2332334/2330589/
2335634
Fax :0836-2330389
dcdi-hubli@dcmsme.gov.in
www.msmedihubli.gov.in
MSME-DFO,
C-17/18, Takyelpat Industrial Estate,
Imphal -795 001. , Manipur
Ph : 0385-2449096 / 2449096 dcdi-imphal@dcmsme.gov.in
www.msme-diimphal.gov.in
MSME-DFO,
10, Industrial Estate, Polo Ground,
Indore -452 003. MP
Ph : 0731-2420723 dcdi-indore@dcmsme.gov.in
www.msmeindore.nic.in
Name and address of Offices/ Officers Telephone/ Fax No. Email /Websites
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
MSME-DFO,
Industrial Estate, Digiana,
Jammu -180 010
Ph : 0191-2431077
Fax : 0191-2450035
dcdi-jammu@dcmsme.gov.in
www.msmedijammu.gov.in
12.
MSME-DFO, 22, Godown,
Industrial Estate,
Jaipur -302 006. Rajasthan
Ph : 0141-2212098/3099/ 0553
Fax : 0141-2210553
dcdi-jaipur@dcmsme.gov.in
www.msmedijaipur.gov.in
MSME-DFO,
107, Industrial Estate,
Kalpi Road,
Kanpur -208 012. UP
Ph : 0512-2295070 ,
0512-2295071, 0512-2295073
Fax : 0512-2220831
dcdi-kanpur@dcmsme.gov.in
www.msmedikanpur.gov.in
MSME-DFO,
Industrial Development Colony, Near
Iti, Kunjpura Road Karnal -132 001
Haryana,.
Ph : 0184-2230910
Fax : 0184-2231862
dcdi-karnal@dcmsme.gov.in
www.msmedikarnal.gov.in
MSME-DFO,
111&112,B.T.Road,
Kolkata -700035. W.Bengal
Ph : 033-25770595/598
Fax : 033-25775531
dcdi-kolkatta@dcmsme.gov.in
www.sisikolkata.gov.in
MSME-DFO,
Industrial Area B,
Ludhiana -141 003 Punjab
Ph : 0161-2531733 /735
Fax : 0161-2533225
dcdi-ludhiana@dcmsme.gov.in
www.msmedildn.gov.in
MSME-DFO, Kurla Andheri Road,
Sakinaka, Mumbai - 4000072
Maharashtra
Ph : 91-22-28576090 / 3091 / 4305
Fax : 91-22-28578092
dcdi-mumbai@dcmsme.gov.in
www.msmedimumbai.gov.in
MSME-DFO, C- Block, C.G.O. Complex,
Seminary Hill, Nagpur -440 006.
Maharashtra
Ph : 0712-2510352/0046
Fax : 0712-2511985
Ph : 011-26847223,
26838118/ 269
Fax :011-26838016
dcdi-nagpur@dcmsme.gov.in
www.msmedinagpur.gov.in
MSME-DFO, Okhla Industrial Estate
New Delhi -110 020.
dcdi-haldwani@dcmsme.gov.in
www.msmedihaldwani.gov.in
MSME-DFO,
Patilputra Industrial Estate,
Patna -800 013. Bihar
MSME-DFO, Near Urkura Railway
Station, Bhanpuri Industrial Area,
Raipur(C.G)-493221 Chhatisgarh
Ph :0612-2262719 , 0612-2262186 ,
0612- 2262208
Fax :0612-2261677
dcdi-patna@dcmsme.gov.in
www.msmedipatna.gov.in
Ph: 0771-2562312
Fax: 0771-2562719
dcdi-raipur@dcmsme.gov.in
www.msmediraipur.gov.in
MSME-DFO,
Kokar Industrial Estate,
Ranchi -834001. Jharkhand
Ph :0651-2546133/2546266
Fax :0651-2546235
dcdi-ranchi@dcmsme.gov.in
www.msmediranchi.nic.in
MSME-DFO,
CHAMBAGHAT,
Solan -173213. Himachal Pradesh
Ph :01792-230766
Fax :01792-230265
dcdi-solan@dcmsme.gov.in
www.msmedihimachal.nic.in
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 52
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
MSME-DFO, Harsiddh Camber,
 4thFloor, Ashram Road,(Gujarat),
Ahmedabad -380 014. Gujarat
Ph :079-27540619 , 079-27544248
079-27543147
dcdi-ahmbad@dcmsme.gov.in
www.msmediahmedabad.gov.in
25.
MSME-DFO, Kanjany Oad,
Ayyanthole, Thrissur -680 003.
Kerala,
Ph :0487-2360216/686
Fax :0487-2360216
dcdi-thrissur@dcmsme.gov.in
www.msmedithrissur.gov.in
MSME-DFO, E-17/18,
Industrial Estate, Naini,
Allahabad -211 009. U.P,
Ph :0532-2697468/6810
Fax :0532-2696809
dcdi-allbad@dcmsme.gov.in
www.msmediallahabad.gov.in
MSME-DFO,Rajaji Nagar,
Industrial Estate
Bangalore -560 044. Karnataka,
Ph :080-23151540/582/583
Fax :080-23144506
dcdi-bang@dcmsme.gov.in
www.msmedibangalore.gov.in
MSME-DFO, Narsapur Cross Roads,
Bala Nagar, Andhra Pradesh
Hyderabad -500 037
Ph :040-23078857
Fax :040-23078131/32/33
dcdi-hyd@dcmsme.gov.in
www.msmehyd.ap.nic.in
MSME-DFO, Institute,Goshala Road,
P.O. Ramna, Muzaarpur -842 002.
Bihar
Ph :0621-2282486
Fax: 2284425
dcdi-mzfpur@dcmsme.gov.in
www.msmedimzfpur.bih.nic.in
MSME Development Institute,
6th Mile, Sovima,
Dimapur, Nagaland - 797115.
(Near Nagaland Bamboo resource Centre)
Ph : 03862-248552 Brdcdi-dima@dcmsme.gov.in
MSME-Development Institute,
Visakhapatnam ANDRA PRADESH
F-19 to 22, IDA, D-Block, Autonagar,
Visakhapatnam-530012
Ph : 0891-2517942,
2701061
brdcdi-vish@dcmsme.gov.in,
Branch MSME DFO
S.No
1.
2.
3.
4.
BR.MSME-DFO Apidfc Building 'C'
Sector, Itanagar -791111.
Ph : 0360-2291176 brmsme.itan@gmail.com
BR.MSME-DFO Vip Road, Jungle Ghat,
Post Box No.547, Portblair-744103
 Ph : 03192-252308
BR.MSME-DFO Link Road Point,
N.S.Avenue, Silchar-788006
Ph : 03842-247649 brdcdi-silc@dcmsme.gov.in
BR.MSME-DFO Darrang College Road,
Tezpur-784001
Ph : 03712-221084 brdcdi-tezp@dcmsme.gov.in
BR.MSME-DFO RA-39 (Ground Floor),
Urvashi (Ph. 2), Bengal Ambuja,
Tarashankar Sarani,
City Centre, Durgapur -713216.
Ph :0343-2547129 brdcdi-durg@dcmsme.gov.in
BR.MSME-DFO Chandpur Industrial
Estate, Varanasi -221106.
Ph : 0542-2370621 brdcdi-vara@dcmsme.gov.in
5.
6.
Name and address of Offices/ Officers Telephone/ Fax No. Email /Websites
MSME MSME SCHEMES SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in www.msme.gov.in 5358
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
18.
17.
19.
20.
21.
22.
BR.MSME-DFO
Masat Industrial Estate, Silvassa
Ph : -0260-2640933,2643103 brdcdi-silv@dcmsme.gov.in
BR.MSME-DFO Amalepatti,
Diphu-782460 Karbi Anglong (dist)
Ph : 03761-272549 brdcdi-diph@dcmsme.gov.in
BR.MSME-DFO 3rd Floor,Annexe Building
Amruta(Jasani)Building Premises,
Near Girnar Cinema MG Road
Rajkot -360001
Ph : 0281-2471045 brdcdi-rajk@dcmsme.gov.in
BR.MSME-DFO Iti Campus,
Hansi Road, Bhiwani-125021
Ph : 01664-242236 brdcdi-bhiw@dcmsme.gov.in
BR.MSME-DFO Opposite Industrial Ph : 0191-2431077, 2435425 brdcdi-bhiw@dcmsme.gov.in
Estate, Sanat Nagar, Srinagar -190 005.
BR.MSME-DFO Katras Road,
Matkuria, Dhanbad-826001
Ph : 0326-2303769/380 brdcdi-dhan@dcmsme.gov.in
BR.MSME-DFO L-11, Indl.Estate,
Yeyyadi, Mangalore-575008
Ph : 0824-2217936 /96 brdcdi-mang@dcmsme.gov.in
BR.MSME-DFO C-1 & 2,
Industrial Estatem.S.K. Mill Road,
Gulbarga-585102
Ph : 08472-420944
Ph :0751/2422590
brdcdi-gulb@dcmsme.gov.in
BR.MSME-DFO 7, Indl. Estate,
Tansen Road,, Gwalior -474004.
dcdigwl.msme@gov.in
BR.MSME-DFO Udyog vihar,
Chorhatta, Rewa -486001
BR.MSME-DFO, Upper Republic Road,
Aizwal
Ph :07662/222448 brdcdi-reva@dcmsme.gov.in
BR.MSME-DFO 32-33,Midc, Indl. Area,
Chikal Thana, Aurangabad-431210.
Ph :0240-2485430
Fax :0240-2484204
brdcdi-aura@dcmsme.gov.in
BR.MSME-DFO Lower Lachimiere,
Shilong-793001
Ph : 0364 2223349 brdcdi-shil@dcmsme.gov.in
BR.MSME-DFO Tura,Near TV Tower
 Dakopgre Tura Meghalaya -794101
Ph : 03651-222569 brdcdi-tura@dcmsme.gov.in
Ph: 0389-2323448 brdcdi-aizw@dcmsme.gov.in
BR.MSME-DFOC-9, Indl.Estate,
Rourkela -769004.
Ph :0661-2507492 brdcdi-rour@dcmsme.gov.in
BR.MSME-DFO New Colony,
Rayagada –765004
Ph :06852-222268 brdcdi-raya@dcmsme.gov.in
23. BR.MSME-DFO 386, Patel Road,
Ram Nagar, Coimbatore
Ph : 0422 2233956 (tele fax) brdcdi-coim@dcmsme.gov.in
24. BR.MSME-DFO Plot No. PP11, TANSIDCO
Industrial Estate, Melur Main Road,
K Pudur, Madurai, Tamil Nadu,India - 625007
Ph : 0452 2918313 brdcdi.mdri@dcmsme.gov.in
25. BR.MSME-DFO Station More,P.O.Suri,
Birbhum -731101.
Ph : Ph :03462-2554402 brdcdi-birb@dcmsme.gov.in
26. BR.MSME-DFO 3&4,Industrial Estate,
Sevoke Road, Siliguri -734001
Ph :0353/2542487 brdcdi-sili@dcmsme.gov.in
MSME SCHEMES For more information and regular updates, visit: www.msme.gov.in 54

MAHATMA GANDHI
